The suggested future co operation and ways of reducing the remaining outstanding amount and hopefully afterwards continue only one way and thats up are as follows:

1.    return an amount of 20 BTC equivalent to some 10.600 NBT tomorow night wednesday June 1st.
2.   Work towards adding liquidity as much as possible in whichever trading pairs of interest on OpenLedger. This co operation will be done with Ivan to ensure the necessary Api conection is created and as soon as possible.
3.    Agreeing to the above and once fully initiated with a mentioning on discuss nubits of Openledger as new exchange added,although already available for more than 3 months, I will add another 10 BTC worth of NBT to be settled right away.
4.    Once liquididty has been established we can start promoting the activities of Nubits on OpenLedger, of which one major contribution will be the monthly ICO's presented on OpenLedger where a stable currency is needed to insure best possible outcome throughout and perhaps even after the ICO of the currency in question.
5.    We will agree on a percentage CCEDK as the escrow service will be offered to make use of NBT as the currency to be used to hedge the funds, and this percentage will then in full be used to return any outstanding.
6.    25% of the fees connected with any transactions of NBT, NSR and BKS will also be used to help settle the remaining outstanding. 25% because 50% is the fee for the contractor handling all crypto currencies called www.blocktrades.us and the remaining 25% is for the OBITS holders an their monthly buybacks as part of the gerneral profit distribution of all OPEN assets, which are in fact all backed by outside currencies like ETH, BTC, NBT, PPC etc. I need to give them something for them to be ok with a temporary reduction. My general point here is better a percentage of something than of nothing and at present the transactions of NBT on OpenLedger is practically nothing although many is asking for the hedge option from Nubits.
7. We will soon be adding Tether to OpenLedger as well, and we might have to discuss in future what is the currency used for hedging on OpenLedger, for now it is however my intention to offer you this possibility to help quickly solve the outstanding and in the same time promote NuBits as always a dollar and the stable currency used in the escrow services to secure the value of funds achieved.
8.    OpenLedger is providing a very efficient and speedy deposit and withdrawal of both NBT, NSR and BKS all in automode, so unlike CCEDK BKS is for instance always easily acccesible on OpenLedger, and I suggest you make use of this service at least untill you have the BCExchange up and running, and no they are not decentralized backed the same way as they would be on the BCExchange, they are instead offered in the similar way any centralized exchnage would offer them excpet for one important point. They are all mentioned as open assets like OPEN.NBT, OPEN.NSR and OPEN.BKS and on OL these assets are backed by the real crypto deposited and located in hot an cold wallets. You may see all transactions, who are doing these transactions, how much is in fact available in both hot and cold wallets, basically all is fully transparent and I believe you will learn to appreciate this fact.


---

[Proposal](https://daology.org/p/7e005cad9c36ac1920efe1c48117d2310c5f362d) created with [Daology.org](https://daology.org) by [nagalim](https://daology.org/u/nagalim) for [Nu](https://daology.org/o/Nu)