It is the highest priority of NuShare holders to fire and replace incompetent liquidity providers. There are many ways liquidity providers can demonstrate themselves to be incompetent. This motion is not intended to create a comprehensive list of actions that demonstrate incompetence. It is reactive to actual incompetence displayed in recent days by many of our liquidity providers. 

**Incompetent liquidity providers are defined as any person who has control of shareholder buy side funds (in single key addresses, multisig addresses or on exchange accounts) who increases the buy side offset above that of the sell offset or advocates doing so as a means of dealing with reduced liquidity.** Dealing with reduced liquidity by reducing it further to save it for later is dysfunctional. It erodes confidence, which will only cause NuBit users to abandon our product.

Liquidity providers who have increased the buy side side offset above that of the sell side offset may continue in other roles, so long as they do not hold NuShare holder funds intended for use in liquidity operations. 

Jordan Lee may appoint and compensate successors to the fired liquidity providers for a period of 30 days after this motion passes using shareholder funds. This is intended to allow for a very rapid transition to responsible liquidity provision while allowing longer term liquidity provision to be chosen by shareholders through motion or custodial grant.

The recent loss of liquidity was not necessary. There were ample funds available in tier 4, tier 5 and tier 6 to purchase the NuBits of all those who desired to sell. Our current troubles are not a result of running out of buy side funds. They are a result of foolishly refusing to use buy side funds. Buy side liquidity should never be withheld when the market demands it, because each new day brings new opportunities to add to tier 5 and tier 6 buy side funds.

The network is designed to punish NuShare holders for poor liquidity and reward them for excellent liquidity. The system is working exactly as it should in this regard. NuShare holders have been severely punished recently for severely reducing liquidity unnecessarily. Passage of this motion indicates NuShare holders understand this and is an expression of commitment to high liquidity at all times.

On May 27th 2016 and since the network has not run out of buy side funds. Passage of this motion indicates NuShare holders understand the huge decline in the NuShare price since May 27th is not the result of losing the peg against ovewhelming market forces. Rather, the decline is due to voluntary abandonment of the peg, which was both unnecessary and counterproductive.

Tier 4 funds should be offered at a tight spread, even in the most heated crisis. If anything, tighter spreads can help increase NuBit demand when NuBit demand is low. Increasing spreads when NuBit demand is low can be expected to lower demand further. It is an incompetent action that shareholders cannot afford to tolerate. As tier 4 funds drop below healthy levels as defined in the NSR buyback/sales calculation, the appropriate action is to aggressively refill it with tier 5 and tier 6 liquidity.

---

[Proposal](https://daology.org/p/e915a786bc7dfb82f116ecc202c5fc6baa9ebfdb) created with [Daology.org](https://daology.org) by [jordanleepeershares](https://daology.org/u/jordanleepeershares) for [Nu](https://daology.org/o/Nu)